# How to Approach IPOs: Stock Performance Prediction of IPOs in the Turkish Stock Market 

## 1. Proposal

Investing and especially starting early is key for financial safety, and my journey started at 18 with IPOs thanks to my friends’ interest in high school. Since then, I’ve been constantly expanding my knowledge on investing, but the habit of IPO investing is still with me. I’ve experienced the pattern that during some periods, all the IPOs perform well in the first few weeks, and the number of people joining them increases during these times. However, this strategy feels shortsighted and doesn’t provide any long term gains since many, including me, sell out of the stocks after the initial decline in price.

This project aims to determine some factors that affect stock performance after IPO and to help formulate an objective investment strategy for IPO investing. I’ll analyze data of exactly 117 BIST IPOs between 2020-2023, with data from spk.gov.tr. This data includes attributes to be used like underwriter (aracı kurum) identity, the market cap at listing (derived from post IPO capital and IPO share price), oversubscription ratio (relative to the IPOs in the same period), and investor count.  I’ll also consider the BIST100 index momentum at the time of the IPO (formulated from moving averages) and days of consecutive 10% gain after IPO (tavan serisi). All stock and index data will be converted to USD to account for inflation, and these data including the USD/TRY rate will be sourced from Yahoo Finance API. Interest rate during the IPO date from TCMB EVDS API, and sector data from kap.org.tr are also among the factors I’ll use. Sector analysis is especially interesting since it’s commonly believed that REIT (GYO) companies perform poorly, however I’ve seen many disliked stocks performing exceptionally well. To evaluate stock performance, I’ll compare the prices at 3, 6, 12, 24 and 36 months after, excluding 2023 IPOs for 36 month comparison. 
